OSDOCS-9614: Created documentation to create a ROSA with HCP cluster that uses external auth for OIDC (#73839)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/rosa-create-objects.adoc

$ rosa create cluster --cluster-name=mycluster -region=us-east-1 --enable-autoscaling --min-replicas=2 --max-replicas=5
----

[id="rosa-create-external-auth-provider_{context}"]
== create external-auth-provider

Add an external authentication provider instead of an internal OIDC provider to approve users to access your cluster.

.Syntax
[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa create external-auth-provider --cluster=<cluster_name> | <cluster_id> [arguments]
----

.Arguments
[cols="30,70"]
|===
|Option |Definition

|--claim-mapping-groups-claim <string>     

> |Required. Describes rules on how to transform information from an ID token into a cluster identity.

Reviewer: Perhaps worth to align with the wording on the root API:
https://github.com/openshift/api/blob/master/config/v1/types_authentication.go#L266

Author: The wording is kind of confusing. The best I can interpret is that it would be something like this:

"The reference claim uses an array of string values to construct the groups for the cluster identity."

Reviewer 2: @EricPonvelle I could help provide some context here. Yes, this field is required in rosa cli.

Reviewer: Yes, in ROSA CLI flow, the `claim-mapping-groups-claim` is required.

```
rosa create external-auth-provider \
--cluster=lponce-local-01 \
--name=m-entra-id \
--issuer-url=https://login.microsoftonline.com/fa5d3dd8-b8ec-4407-a55c-ced639f1c8c5/v2.0 \
--issuer-audiences=a9464024-b142-4bdf-86c0-a153109cdb14,8a769b34-13c9-4f5b-9933-ec439700ec67 \
--claim-mapping-username-claim=email \
--claim-mapping-groups-claim=groups \
--console-client-id=8a769b34-13c9-4f5b-9933-ec439700ec67 \
--console-client-secret=<SECRET>
```

$ rosa create cluster --cluster-name=mycluster -region=us-east-1 --enable-autoscaling --min-replicas=2 --max-replicas=5
----

[id="rosa-create-external-auth-provider_{context}"]
== create external-auth-provider

> Add an external authentication provider instead of an internal OIDC provider to approve users to access your cluster.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Add an external identity provider instead of the OpenShift OAuth2 server.
```

.Syntax
[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa create external-auth-provider --cluster=<cluster_name> | <cluster_id> [arguments]

> ----

Reviewer 4: It would be better to add note to highlight it is only supported for HCP cluster that uses external authentication providers.

.Arguments
[cols="30,70"]
|===
|Option |Definition

|--claim-mapping-groups-claim <string>     
|Required. Describes rules on how to transform information from an ID token into a cluster identity.

|--claim-validation-rule <strings>
|ClaimValidationRules are rules that are applied to validate token claims to authenticate users. The input will be in a <claim>:<required_value> format. To have multiple claim validation rules, you could separate the values by ','. The input could be in a <claim>:<required_value>,<claim>:<required_value> format.

|--claim-mapping-username-claim <string>

> |The name of the claim that should be used to construct user names for the cluster identity.

Reviewer 3: mention the default value

Reviewer 2: Yep it's a required field.

Reviewer: Ah, good point, perhaps we could add some valid defaults in a next iteration.

It won't make the ROSA CLI 1.2.38 but it can be a refinement for next one.

Please, @chenz4027, could you follow that suggestion in JIRAs? I think it makes sense.

The usual "defaults" should be something like these ones:
```
--claim-mapping-username-claim=email \
--claim-mapping-groups-claim=groups \
```

Reviewer 2: Sounds good, I created the bug: https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCM-7673

a|--cluster <cluster_name>\|<cluster_id>
|Required. The name or ID of the cluster to which the IDP will be added.

|--console-client-id <string>

> |The identifier of the OIDC client from the OIDC provider.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|The identifier of the OIDC client from the OIDC provider for the OpenShift web console.
```

|--console-client-secret <string>          

> |The value of the client secret that is associated with your console app registration. If you do not include the client secret, this command uses a public OIDC OAuthClient.

Reviewer 3: > associated with your console app registration

This is Entra ID-specific. Use OAuth2/OIDC lingo instead.
> If you do not include the client secret, this command uses a public OIDC OAuthClient.

That statement is false. The web console requires client secret.

Author: I don't quite know how to resolve this text.

@lucasponce can I get some assistance?

Reviewer 2: As commented by @yingzhanredhat per https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/73839/files#r1574341120. I do see in some documents that we refer this to be console app registration. @stlaz Is OAuth2/OIDC a more appropriate way to be documented?

For the 2nd part, I think @stlaz is correct. Web console requires client secret & token, but web console is not required to create an external auth for OIDC, so maybe we can rephrase it a bit.

> |--issuer-audiences <strings>
> |This argument is an array of audiences for which the token was issued. Valid tokens must include at least one of these values in their "aud" claim. You must only set one value for this argument.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|--issuer-audiences <strings>
|This argument is an array of audiences to check the incoming tokens against. Valid tokens must include at least one of these values in their "aud" claim. You must only set one value for this argument.
```
Also
>  You must only set one value for this argument

is false. Check the API, I believe it's 10 audiences at the moment.

> A comma-separated list of audiences that the token was issued for.

Reviewer 3: redundant line?

|--issuer-ca-file <string>

> |The path to the PEM-encoded certificate file to use when making requests to the server, for example, `/usr/share/cert.pem`.

Reviewer 3: Remove the example

$ rosa create cluster --cluster-name=mycluster -region=us-east-1 --enable-autoscaling --min-replicas=2 --max-replicas=5
----

[id="rosa-create-external-auth-provider_{context}"]
== create external-auth-provider

> Add an external identity provider instead of the OpenShift OAuth2 server.

Reviewer 5: Should there be an attribute for OpenShift?

[IMPORTANT]
====
You can only use external authentication providers on {hcp-title} clusters.
====

.Syntax
[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa create external-auth-provider --cluster=<cluster_name> | <cluster_id> [arguments]
----

.Arguments
[cols="30,70"]
|===
|Option |Definition

|--claim-mapping-groups-claim <string>     
|Required. Describes rules on how to transform information from an ID token into a cluster identity.

|--claim-validation-rule <strings>

> |Rules that are applied to validate token claims to authenticate users. The input will be in a <claim>:<required_value> format. To have multiple claim validation rules, you can separate the values by ','. For example, <claim>:<required_value>,<claim>:<required_value> format.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
|Rules that are applied to validate token claims to authenticate users. The input will be in a `<claim>:<required_value>` format. To have multiple claim validation rules, you can separate the values by `,`. For example, `<claim>:<required_value>,<claim>:<required_value>`.
```

> |Rules that are applied to validate token claims to authenticate users. The input will be in a `<claim>:<required_value>` format. To have multiple claim validation rules, you can separate the values by `,`. For example, `<claim>:<required_value>,<claim>:<required_value> format`.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
|Rules that are applied to validate token claims to authenticate users. The input will be in a `<claim>:<required_value>` format. To have multiple claim validation rules, you can separate the values by `,`. For example, `<claim>:<required_value>,<claim>:<required_value>`.
```

|--claim-mapping-username-claim <string>
|The name of the claim that should be used to construct user names for the cluster identity.

a|--cluster <cluster_name>\|<cluster_id>

> |Required. The name or ID of the cluster the IDP will be added.

Reviewer 5: Should IDP be defined here? Also possibly missing a word:
```suggestion
|Required. The name or ID of the cluster the IDP will be added to.
```

> |Required. The name or ID of the cluster the IDP will be added.

Reviewer 6: I think one of these works better.
```suggestion
|Required. The name or ID of the cluster the IDP will be added to.
```
```suggestion
|Required. The name or ID of the cluster to which the IDP will be added.
```

|--console-client-id <string>

> |The identifier of the OIDC client from the OIDC provider for the OpenShift web console.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
|The identifier of the OIDC client from the OIDC provider for the {product-title} web console.
```

|--console-client-secret <string>          
|The secret that is associated with the console application registration.

|--issuer-audiences <strings>

> |An array of audiences to check the incoming tokens against. Valid tokens must include at least one of these values in their "aud" claim.

Reviewer 5: Is "aud" a parameter or something in code? (in other words, should it be `aud`?)

|--issuer-ca-file <string>
|The path to the PEM-encoded certificate file to use when making requests to the server.

|--issuer-url <string>
|The serving URL of the token issuer.

|--name <string>
|A name that is used to refer to the external authentication provider.
|===

.Optional arguments inherited from parent commands
[cols="30,70"]
|===
|Option |Definition

|--help
|Shows help for this command.

|--debug
|Enables debug mode.

|--interactive
|Enables interactive mode.

|--profile
|Specifies an AWS profile string from your credentials file.
|===

.Examples

> Add an Entra ID identity provider to a cluster named `mycluster`.

Reviewer 5: Since it's the first appearance, maybe use the full product name here:
```suggestion
Add a Microsoft Entra ID identity provider to a cluster named `mycluster`.
```
